ATR-677: Add RN draft for 3.1 (#458)
Acumatica/Acuminator: docs/ReleaseNotes.md

# Acuminator Release Notes
This document provides information about fixes, enhancements, and key features that are available in Acuminator.

## Acuminator 3.1
Acuminator 3.1 includes the bug fixes and enhancements described in this section, as well as the features that have been implemented in previous versions.

### Enhancements
In Acuminator 3.1, the following enhancements have been implemented:
 - The [PX1056](diagnostics/PX1056.md) diagnostic has been added to check and warn if a graph is created in the `IsActive` method in graph and DAC extension and the `IsActiveForGraph` method.

>  - Code snippets are now provided for generic event handlers and DAC fields. 

Reviewer: Imho,  we should add a bit more details about code snippets. Maybe create a feature section and add it there. We can at least add a reference to their repository which contains documentation:
 https://github.com/Acumatica/CodeSnippets
 
 Also this is not a full list, it should be like this:
 `Visual Studio Code Snippets are now provided for DAC, DAC fields and graph events.`
 There are templates for DAC and for old graph events with non-generic signatures.

> ### Fixed Bugs

Reviewer: ATR-635 is not described

In this version of Acuminator, the following bugs have been fixed:

>  - Diagnostic suppression performed using Acuminator code fix did not work in Visual Studio 2022 because it relied on internal API that was changed in the new version of Visual Studio

Reviewer: I think we can omit the part about using internal Roslyn API since this is an implementation detail. I think it can be something like this:
```suggestion
 - Acuminator diagnostic suppression code fixes stopped appearing in the UI in the latest release of Visual Studio 2022.
```

>  - The [PX1072](diagnostics/PX1072.md) diagnostic displayed a warning for static methods while it should report only graph instance methods.

Reviewer: There are also other changes that I described for release notes in the comments to ATR-675.

>  - The [PX1086](diagnostics/PX1086.md) diagnostic failed on expression that create collections when the braces were omitted.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - The [PX1086](diagnostics/PX1086.md) diagnostic failed on syntax expressions that create collections with collection initializer when the constructor braces were omitted.
```

>  - Acuminator failed when the PXGraph.InstanceCreated.AddHandler  method had a type parameter.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - Acuminator failed when a graph which is a generic type parameter was passed to the `PXGraph.InstanceCreated.AddHandler`  method .
```

>  - The [PX1008](diagnostics/PX1008.md) diagnostic displayed a warning when capturing a reference to `this` in a delegate even in a class that was not a graph or a graph extension.

Reviewer: The related changes from ATR-452 are not mentioned in enhancements, See all changes in the "Changes Summary" field in ATR-670. The important things:
```
- Extended design of syntax walkers for inter-procedural analysis, added extension points and new API.
- Added check for captured adapters to PX1008 check and improved diagnostic message
- Added support for PX1008 check in custom views and attributes

- PX1008 check is completely reworked. Now it is a data flow diagnostic that goes recursively into methods and checks how the data is transferred to them. It is based on new nested walkers design.

Here are some principles of the data flow analysis used by the main PX1008 walker.
We maintain a stack of non-capturable elements. Before we visit a methods from a method call recursively we calculate what can capture reference to graph/adapter at the call site. The diagnostic supports four options:
- We are at the top of call stack and inside an action handler. In this case adapter parameter can be captured.
- We are inside graph/graph extension and `this` is passed among the arguments
- We are inside recursive call and already have some non-capturable parameters that are used in call arguments.
- We are inside a local method and parameters from containing methods have some non-capturable elements

 There is a dedicated walker that checks for parameters and `this` captured in arguments expression.
Additionally, there is a walker that check for reassignments of parameters before the call site.
```

Also this can be in `Other things`:
```
- Introduced nullable reference code analysis and nullable annotations to parts of Acuminator 
```

>  - Code snippets provided by Acuminator were not installed correctly when the Acuminator package was updated or reinstalled from Visual Studio.

Reviewer: We don't need to mention this bug since code snippets weren't introduced yet

>  - The [PX1050](diagnostics/PX1050.md) diagnostic did not display a warning for interpolated strings.

Reviewer: This is OK, but I believe the changes for these items will be bigger, so it's too early to describe them

 - The [PX1057](diagnostics/PX1057.md) and [PX1084](diagnostics/PX1084.md) diagnostics now prevent graph creation via a direct constructor call, that is, the `new PXGraph()` method call.
 - The [PX1050](diagnostics/PX1050.md) diagnostic now displays a warning for interpolated strings and strings passed to localization methods or exception constructors that are not constant fields.
 
 #### Code Snippets
 Acuminator now provides code snippets for DACs, DAC fields, and graph events. A developer can use these code snippets to speed up writing new code and avoid common mistakes.
   For more details on installing and using the code snippets, see [the CodeSnippets repository on GitHub](https://github.com/Acumatica/CodeSnippets). 
   
 #### Improvements in the PX1008 diagnostic 
 The [PX1008](diagnostics/PX1008.md) diagnostic has been completely reworked. Now it is a data flow diagnostic that goes recursively into methods and checks how the data is transferred to them.
 The following enhancements have been implemented in the diagnostic:

>    - Check for captured adapters has been implemented 

Reviewer: This needs more details:
```suggestion
   - PX1008 now checks that `PXAdapter` adapters, passed to graph/graph extension action delegates, are not captured in delegate closures by long run and processing delegates
```

   - Improvements in diagnostic messages

>    - Support for the PX1008 diagnostic has been added to custom views and attributes 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - The PX1008 diagnostic now checks custom views and attributes for capturing graph and adapter references in a long run delegate's closure
```

>    - Extended design of syntax walkers for inter-procedural analysis

Reviewer: This is not related to PX1008 diagnostic itself, it's more like an improvement of Acuminator own platform for creation of diagnostics for Acumatica. Can we mention it in a separate section like "Other"?

     New extension points and new API has been added.
 
 #### Improvements in the PX1072 diagnostic 
 The following fixes have been implemented in the [PX1072](diagnostics/PX1072.md) diagnostic:

>    - In static graph members, the declaring graph now is not considered available for usage in fBQL queries

Reviewer: This line can be considered a bugfix, but I actually like this grouping of changes by diagnostic.

Author: bug fixes can be considered improvements as well :)

   - The diagnostic now does not display a warning if a single local graph is available and used in an fQBL query.

>    - The diagnostic now displayed a warning when a class contains multiple fBQL queries and no graph is available.

Reviewer: Here it is a little bit more tricky than that. The diagnostic looks for _available_ graph in the context. The available means already existing graphs. This could be:
- `this` if we are inside graph or graph extension
- method parameter of a graph type
- local variable of a graph type.
- In theory it also could be fields and properties but we explicitly do not analyze them and exclude them from the list of available graphs. **This is also a change introduced in this release and it should be mentioned in release notes**

The case described in this line is when you have no such available graphs and multiple BQL queries. Each query uses its own graph by creating it:
```csharp
var queryRes1 = PXSelect<Dac>.Select(new PXGraph());
var queryRes2 = PXselect<AnotherDac>.Select(PXGraph.CreateInstance<SomeGraph>());
```
In this case you can introduce a shared local variable with a graph which can be reused by both queries and now the diagnostic suggests this. I think we should add these details to the release notes.

>    - The diagnostic now displayed a warning when a class contains multiple fBQL queries and no graph is available.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - The diagnostic now displayed a warning when a class contains multiple FBQL queries and no graph is available.
```

## Acuminator 3.1
Acuminator 3.1 includes the bug fixes and enhancements described in this section, as well as the features that have been implemented in previous versions.

### Enhancements
In Acuminator 3.1, the following enhancements have been implemented:
 - The [PX1062](diagnostics/PX1062.md) diagnostic has been added to check that graphs and graph extensions do not contain static actions, views or other static mutable fields and properties.
 - The following new diagnostics have been added to prevent errors related to the serialization and deserialization of exceptions: 
   - The [PX1063](diagnostics/PX1063.md) diagnostic checks that the exception classes derived from `System.Exception` always declare a serialization constructor.
   - The [PX1064](diagnostics/PX1064.md) diagnostic checks that the exception classes derived from `System.Exception` which declare new serializable data, always provide an override of the `GetObjectData` method.
 - Support for the following complex expressions passed to SetProcessDelegate API has been added to the [PX1008](diagnostics/PX1008.md) and [PX1086](diagnostics/PX1086.md) diagnostics:

>    - Cast expression as shown in the fllowing example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - Cast expression as shown in the following example:
```

     ```C#
	 ProcessProductSync.SetProcessDelegate((PXProcessingBase<KNCASyncDetails>.ProcessListDelegate)delegate
	 {
	    ProductCreateUpdate();
	 });
	 ```
   - Object creation expression as shown in the following example:
     ```C#
	 ProcessProductSync.SetProcessDelegate(new PXProcessingBase<KNCASyncDetails>.ProcessListDelegate(delegate
	 {
		ProductCreateUpdate();
	 }));
	 ```
   - Local variable or parameter that store delegate
   - Property or field that store delegate

>  - The [PX1056](diagnostics/PX1056.md) diagnostic has been added to check and warn if a graph is created in the `IsActive` method in graph and DAC extension and the `IsActiveForGraph` method.

Reviewer: These sounds somewhat strange imho because the last method is just added separately. Maybe we can reword it?
```suggestion
 - The [PX1056](diagnostics/PX1056.md) diagnostic has been added to check and warn if a graph is created in either  `IsActive` or `IsActiveForGraph` methods in a graph extension or DAC extension.
```

 - The [PX1057](diagnostics/PX1057.md) and [PX1084](diagnostics/PX1084.md) diagnostics now prevent graph creation via a direct constructor call, that is, the `new PXGraph()` method call.

>  - The [PX1050](diagnostics/PX1050.md) and [PX1051](diagnostics/PX1051.md) diagnostics now display less false alerts and find more cases of an incorrect localization.

Reviewer: Can we add interpolation strings like this?
```suggestion
 - The [PX1050](diagnostics/PX1050.md) and [PX1051](diagnostics/PX1051.md) diagnostics now display less false alerts and find more cases of an incorrect localization like interpolation strings.
```

>  - Performance of the the [PX1073](diagnostics/PX1073.md) and [PX1074](diagnostics/PX1074.md) diagnostics has been improved. Multiple runtime error during the analysis of a graph extension were fixed in these diagnostics by removing the redundant analysis of events from the base graph.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - Performance of the the [PX1073](diagnostics/PX1073.md) and [PX1074](diagnostics/PX1074.md) diagnostics has been improved. Runtime errors during the analysis of a graph extension were fixed in these diagnostics by removing the redundant analysis of events from the base graph.
```

Maybe this should be a bugfix?

   For more details on installing and using the code snippets, see [the CodeSnippets repository on GitHub](https://github.com/Acumatica/CodeSnippets). 
   
 #### Improvements in the PX1008 diagnostic 
 The [PX1008](diagnostics/PX1008.md) diagnostic has been completely reworked. Now it is a data flow diagnostic that goes recursively into methods and checks how the data is transferred to them.
 The following enhancements have been implemented in the diagnostic:
   - Checks that adapters of the `PXAdapter` type, passed to a graph or a graph extension action delegates, are not captured in delegate closures by long run and processing delegates
   - Improvements in diagnostic messages
   - Checks that custom views and attributes capture graph and adapter references in a closure of a long run delegate
   - Bug fixes: The diagnostic displayed a warning when capturing a reference to `this` in a delegate even in a class that was not a graph or a graph extension
 
 #### Improvements in the PX1072 diagnostic 
 The following fixes have been implemented in the [PX1072](diagnostics/PX1072.md) diagnostic:

>    - In static graph members, the declaring graph now is not considered available for usage in Fluent BQL queries

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - In static graph members, the declaring graph now is not considered available for usage in BQL and Fluent BQL queries
```

>    - The diagnostic now does not display a warning if a single local graph is available and used in an  Fluent BQL query.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - The diagnostic now does not display a warning if a single local graph is available and used in a BQL or Fluent BQL query.
```

   - The diagnostic now displayes a warning when a class contains multiple BQL or Fluent BQL queries and there are no available graphs, that is, graphs instances which already exist and can be used by a BQL query.
 
### Fixed Bugs
In this version of Acuminator, the following bugs have been fixed:

>  - Code fixes provided by Acuminator diagnostics stopped appearing in the UI in the latest release of Visual Studio 2022.

Reviewer: This is wrong, only two particular code fixes related to the diagnostic suppression stopped working. It was code fix that generated local comment for the diagnostic suppression and code fix that suppressed alert in the Acuminator suppression file:
```suggestion
 - Two Acuminator code fixes, which suppressed Acuminator diagnostics alerts either with a local comment or in the Acuminator suppression file, stopped appearing in the UI in the latest release of Visual Studio 2022.
```

>  - When a diagnostic was suppressed in a global suppression file via a code fix, Acuminator did not include the suppression file to the Visual Studio project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - When a diagnostic was suppressed in a global suppression file via a code fix for a project without Acuminator suppression file, Acuminator incorrectly generated it in Visual Studio 2022. It did not generate the "AdditionalFiles" section in the project file for the generated suppression file.
```

### Enhancements
In Acuminator 3.1, the following enhancements have been implemented:

>  - The [PX1062](diagnostics/PX1062.md) diagnostic has been added to check that graphs and graph extensions do not contain statis members.

Author: I have described which static members are prohibited in the diagnostic doc, should we go into detail in RN?

 - The following new diagnostics have been added to prevent serealization and desealization errors: 
   - The [PX1063](diagnostics/PX1063.md) diagnostic checks that the exception-derived classes always declare a serealization constructor.
   - The [PX1064](diagnostics/PX1064.md) diagnostic checks that the exception-derived classes which declare new serealizable data, always provide an override of the `GetObjectData` method.

>  - Support for the following complex expressions passed to SetProcessDelegate API has been added to the [PX1008](diagnostics/PX1008.md) and [PX1086](diagnostics/PX1086.md) diagnostics:

Reviewer: I would not call this change an enhancement, imho it's more close to a bugfix. But I'm not sure. @EAndrosova  what do you think?

Author: Why not?

Reviewer: It really is a matter of taste. I think we can see many bug fixes as enhancements. So I will leave it up to you to decide where it should be placed. It doesn't look bad here.

In my opinion, the fact that these expressions were not supported originally is a bug. The analysis just was not correct in some cases because these cases were forgotten during the diagnostic creation. Moreover, it's not like we handled it gracefully, it was a run-time error in the analyzer.

   - Cast expression like
   - Object creation expression
   - Local variable or parameter that store delegate
   - Property or field that store delegate
 - The [PX1056](diagnostics/PX1056.md) diagnostic has been added to check and warn if a graph is created in the `IsActive` method in graph and DAC extension and the `IsActiveForGraph` method.

>  - The [PX1057](diagnostics/PX1057.md) and [PX1084](diagnostics/PX1084.md) diagnostics now prevent graph creation via a direct constructor call, that is, the `new PXGraph()` method call.

Reviewer: @EAndrosova I can't remember which item introduced this change. Could you please remind me?

>  - The [PX1050](diagnostics/PX1050.md) diagnostic now displays a warning for interpolated strings and strings passed to localization methods or exception constructors that are not constant fields.

Reviewer: If this line describes only ATR-347 then I would suggest this sentence:
```suggestion
 - The [PX1050](diagnostics/PX1050.md) diagnostic now displays a warning for interpolated strings passed to localization methods or exception constructors.
```

 
 #### Code Snippets

>  Acuminator now provides code snippets for DACs, DAC fields, and graph events. A developer can use these code snippets to speed up writing new code and avoid common mistakes.

Reviewer: Can we add a little bit more info? Like:
`Start using code snippets by typing "dac" or "_" and selecting the appropriate snippet in the IntelliSense code completion list`?

I personally would love to see a screenshot from Code Snippets repo here, although not insisting on this. We are describing a cool new feature for developers, we should introduce it properly.

   For more details on installing and using the code snippets, see [the CodeSnippets repository on GitHub](https://github.com/Acumatica/CodeSnippets). 
   
 #### Improvements in the PX1008 diagnostic 

>  The [PX1008](diagnostics/PX1008.md) diagnostic has been completely reworked. Now it is a data flow diagnostic that goes recursively into methods and checks how the data is transferred to them.

Reviewer: I think it will be more correct to say:
`Now this diagnostic implements a data flow analysis that goes recursively ....`

 
 #### Code Snippets
 Acuminator now provides code snippets for DACs, DAC fields, and graph events. A developer can use these code snippets to speed up writing new code and avoid common mistakes.
 You can start using code snippets by typing "dac" or "_" and selecting the appropriate snippet in the IntelliSense code completion list as shown in the following screenshot.
 <br/>
   ![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/7687400/170328654-d343c2da-9659-4e6c-b1c8-c894dad99292.png)
 When you select a shortcut from IntelliSense suggestions and press the Tab key, the system inserts the code snippet as shown in the following screenshot.

>  <br/> 

Reviewer: All is good now but we need to put sentences after images on new lines, currently if you try to look at the whole file it looks like this:
![изображение](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/7687400/202911623-8ac4e3b4-848e-4754-a08e-e78781d8582f.png)

Reviewer: looks like it is fixed. Maybe I have looked at a selected subset of changes and didn't see the fixed version

 The following fixes have been implemented in the [PX1072](diagnostics/PX1072.md) diagnostic:
   - In static graph members, the declaring graph now is not considered available for usage in Fluent BQL queries
   - The diagnostic now does not display a warning if a single local graph is available and used in an  Fluent BQL query.

>    - The diagnostic now displayed a warning when a class contains multiple Fluent BQL queries and no graph is available.

Reviewer: Can we use something like BQL/FBQL? Because the diagnostic works for both.
